README.md, before:

# sentimento  
Senior Seminar Capstone || Spring 2023  
Angelo Indre, Anthony Lupica, Jenice Mario  
  
  
# Project Description
Sentimento: A reinvented journal. Entries will be scanned and highlighted for emotive words, such as happy/sad/ etc upon submission. These will be split into percentages that comprise a mood for the day. Using RGB for each 5 emotions, a color for the day will be created. This can be tracked for the week, month, year, etc. and can help users track their moods/emotions/feelings through that time. 

# Docker

starting the frontend and backend is now a 1-step process with three commands thanks to docker-compose.

you can now build and run both the frontend and backend with
```
$ docker compose build
$ docker compose up -d      # -d makes it so they run in the background
```

There is also now an option to either use preexisting database data, or initialize a fresh DB of sample data. note that you will want to run this command below before trying to use preexisting data (As there will be no tables the first time)
```
$ RESET_DB=true docker compose up
```

safely stop the frontend and backend with
```
$ docker compose down
```

If you want to see the logs for frontend or backend while running
```
$ docker ps              # displays info about running containers including an id
$ docker logs <id> -f    # Tracks the logs of the specified container (remove -f for a onetime view rather than follow)
ctrl + c                 # Quit following logs
```

Commit message:

refactor: default to adding test data to db until we have persistent storage

README.md, after:

# sentimento  
Senior Seminar Capstone || Spring 2023  
Angelo Indre, Anthony Lupica, Jenice Mario  
  
  
# Project Description
Sentimento: A reinvented journal. Entries will be scanned and highlighted for emotive words, such as happy/sad/ etc upon submission. These will be split into percentages that comprise a mood for the day. Using RGB for each 5 emotions, a color for the day will be created. This can be tracked for the week, month, year, etc. and can help users track their moods/emotions/feelings through that time. 

# Docker

starting the frontend and backend is now a 1-step process with three commands thanks to docker-compose.

you can now build and run both the frontend and backend with
```
$ docker compose build
$ docker compose up -d      # -d makes it so they run in the background
```

There is also now an option to either use preexisting database data, or initialize a fresh DB of sample data. note that you will want to run this command below before trying to use preexisting data (As there will be no tables the first time)

This command below is actually temporarily the default option until we get persistent storage set up with volumes or whatever
```
$ RESET_DB=true docker compose up
```

safely stop the frontend and backend with
```
$ docker compose down
```

If you want to see the logs for frontend or backend while running
```
$ docker ps              # displays info about running containers including an id
$ docker logs <id> -f    # Tracks the logs of the specified container (remove -f for a onetime view rather than follow)
ctrl + c                 # Quit following logs
```
